fix: rehaul-AWS-AMI (#1304)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/aws-ami.md

---

> description: Deploy Appsmith on AWS with an AMI available on the AWS marketplace.

Reviewer: The AMI always pulls the latest Appsmith image, and users sometimes get confused with the AMI release version and the Appsmith release, since we don't update it very often.
I think we should also mention that. We will just use the major version of Appsmith that maps to the AMI version.
In this case v1.9

sidebar_position: 4
---

# AWS AMI

> This page provides steps to install Appsmith using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI).

Reviewer 2: should we link to the official website?

Author: The links are available in the Install Appsmith section.

## Prerequisites

> - Amazon Web Services (AWS) account. If you don't have one, [Create an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).

Reviewer 2: think all the other links should also start lower case as they are part of the sentence.

> - Amazon Web Services (AWS) account. If you don't have one, [Create an AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/).

Author: As per the[ style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/links-external), it should start with a capital letter.

- To enable port access, [add an inbound rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/working-with-security-groups.html#adding-security-group-rule) for the port ranges 80, 443, and 22 to the security group you created above.
- Ensure you have created the security group and the SSH key pair in the same region.

## Install Appsmith

Follow these steps to install Appsmith using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI):

1. Go to **EC2 Dashboard**.
2. Scroll down to the **Launch instance** section.
3. Click the **Launch instance** button, and select **Launch instance**.
4. On the **Launch instance** screen, scroll down to the **Application and OS images(Amazon Machine Image)** section.
5. Search for **Appsmith** in the search bar.
6. In the search results, click **AWS Marketplace AMIs**.
7. Select the **Appsmith** image.
8. On the **Launch an instance** screen:

 a. Configure the instance as below:

 | Attribute | Value |
 |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
 | **Name** | Give a desired name. |
 | **Instance type** | A minimum `t3.medium` or `t3a.medium` is needed. |

>  | **Key pair** | Select the Key pair you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) step. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 | **Key pair** | Select the Key pair you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. |
```

 b. Scroll down to the **Networking** section, and configure as below:

 | Attribute | Value |
 |------------------------|------------------------------------------| 
 | **Firewall (security groups)** | Select **Select existing security group**.|
 | **Security groups** | Select the security group that you created in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. |
 
9. Keep the default selection for other fields.

10. Click the **Launch Instance** button.

You see a launch status screen as shown below:

<figure>
 <img src="/img/aws_ami_create_server_status.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="A launch status screen shows the server status." />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>A launch status screen shows the server status</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> 11. Follow these steps to verify the Appsmith installation:

Author: It's mentioned.
<img width="845" alt="image" src="https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith-docs/assets/99252011/41a2e81e-c14a-4e2b-9729-6bd97092423a">

 a. On the **Launch status** screen, click the **EC2 instance id** available in the bracket.

 b. Click the **Instance ID** to access the **Instance Summary** page.

 b. Copy the **Public IPv4 address** available on the **Instance Summary** page.

 <figure>
 <img src="/img/aws-ecs-ami-find-DNS-to-access-appsmith.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Use DNS or Public IP to access Appsmith." />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>Use DNS or Public IP to access Appsmith</i></figcaption>
 </figure>
 

>  h. Paste it in a browser tab and wait for the server to come up. It can take up to 5 minutes. 

Reviewer 2: numbering incorrect here

 
 e. Once the server is up and running, you can see the login screen of Appsmith.

 <figure>
 <img src="/img/aws-login-page.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Appsmith Login Screen" />
 <figcaption align="center"><i>Appsmith Login Screen</i></figcaption>
 </figure>

> 12. Follow these steps to log into the instance using admin credentials:

Reviewer: Can we also mention that the Appsmith instance gets initialized with default root admin user appsmith@example.com, and users have to log in as this user for the first time?

Author: Added default root. Wouldn't the users use as it's part of the installation guide.

 a. Username: `appsmith@example.com`

 b. Find the password in one of the below ways:

    * SSH into your server using your private key and find the application credentials with:
    ```
    sudo cat /home/ubuntu/appsmith/credential
    ``` 
    * **Or** review the system log, by selecting **Get System Log** from the **Actions** drop-down menu for your instance. The credentials are printed in the logs as shown below:

      :::caution Attention

>       The application password is **only** available in system logs for the initial 24 hours. It's recommended that you change the password for security reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The application password is **only** available in system logs for the initial 24 hours. It's recommended that you create a new admin user and delete the appsmith@example.com user immediately.
```

>       The application password is **only** available in system logs for the initial 24 hours. It's recommended that you change the password for security reasons.

Reviewer: I think the logs are rotated based on the size, are we sure it gets ceared in 24 hours? I'll check this out.

Author: This was available in existing docs. So kept it as is.
<img width="885" alt="image" src="https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith-docs/assets/99252011/b8f18349-55a8-410b-bbb3-a02f99140fc2">
